*dba_open* -- Open database

  resource dba_open(string path, string mode [, string handler [, mixed ...]])~

|dba_open| establishes a database instance for {path} with {mode} using
{handler}.

{path} Commonly a regular path in your filesystem.

{mode} It is r for read access, w for read/write access to an already existing
database, c for read/write access and database creation if it doesn't
currently exist, and n for create, truncate and read/write access. The
database is created in BTree mode, other modes (like Hash or Queue) are not
supported.

Additionally you can set the database lock method with the next char. Use l to
lock the database with a .lck file or d to lock the databasefile itself. It is
important that all of your applications do this consistently.

If you want to test the access and do not want to wait for the lock you can
add t as third character. When you are absolutely sure that you do not require
database locking you can do so by using - instead of l or d. When none of d, l
or - is used, dba will lock on the database file as it would with d.

There can only be one writer for one database file. When you use dba on a web
server and more than one request requires write operations they can only be
done one after another. Also read during write is not allowed. The dba
extension uses locks to prevent this. See the following table: DBA locking
already open {mode} = "rl" {mode} = "rlt" {mode} = "wl" {mode} = "wlt" {mode}
= "rd" {mode} = "rdt" {mode} = "wd" {mode} = "wdt" not open ok ok ok ok ok ok
ok ok {mode} = "rl" ok ok wait false illegal illegal illegal illegal {mode} =
"wl" wait false wait false illegal illegal illegal illegal {mode} = "rd"
illegal illegal illegal illegal ok ok wait false {mode} = "wd" illegal illegal
illegal illegal wait false wait false ok: the second call will be successfull.
wait: the second call waits until |dba_close| is called for the first. false:
the second call returns false. illegal: you must not mix "l" and "d" modifiers
for {mode} parameter.

{handler} The name of the handler which shall be used for accessing {path}. It
is passed all optional parameters given to |dba_open| and can act on behalf of
them.

Returns a positive handle on success or FALSE on failure.

Version Description 4.3.0 It's possible to open database files over network
connection. However in cases a socket connection will be used (as with http or
ftp) the connection will be locked instead of the resource itself. This is
important to know since in such cases locking is simply ignored on the
resource and other solutions have to be found. 4.3.0 Locking and the {mode}
modifiers "l", "d", "-" and "t" were added. In previous PHP versions, you must
use semaphores to guard against simultaneous database access for any database
handler with the exception of GDBM. See System V semaphore support. before
4.3.5 open mode 'c' is broken for several internal handlers and truncates the
database instead of appending data to an existent database. Also dbm and ndbm
fail on mode 'c' in typical configurations (this cannot be fixed).

|dba_popen| |dba_close|

vim:ft=help:
