*gmmktime* -- Get Unix timestamp for a GMT date

  int gmmktime([int hour [, int minute [, int second [, int month [, int day [, int year [, int is_dst]]]]]]])~

Identical to |mktime| except the passed parameters represents a GMT date.
|gmmktime| internally uses |mktime| so only times valid in derived local time
can be used.

Like |mktime|, arguments may be left out in order from right to left, with any
omitted arguments being set to the current corresponding GMT value.

{hour} The number of the hour relevant to the start of the day determined by
{month}, {day} and {year}. Negative values reference the hour before midnight
of the day in question. Values greater than 23 reference the appropriate hour
in the following day(s).

{minute} The number of the minute relevant to the start of the {hour}.
Negative values reference the minute in the previous hour. Values greater than
59 reference the appropriate minute in the following hour(s).

{second} The number of seconds relevant to the start of the {minute}. Negative
values reference the second in the previous minute. Values greater than 59
reference the appropriate second in the following minute(s).

{month} The number of the month relevant to the end of the previous year.
Values 1 to 12 reference the normal calendar months of the year in question.
Values less than 1 (including negative values) reference the months in the
previous year in reverse order, so 0 is December, -1 is November, etc. Values
greater than 12 reference the appropriate month in the following year(s).

{day} The number of the day relevant to the end of the previous month. Values
1 to 28, 29, 30 or 31 (depending upon the month) reference the normal days in
the relevant month. Values less than 1 (including negative values) reference
the days in the previous month, so 0 is the last day of the previous month, -1
is the day before that, etc. Values greater than the number of days in the
relevant month reference the appropriate day in the following month(s).

{year} The year

{is_dst} Parameters always represent a GMT date so {is_dst} doesn't influence
the result.

Returns a integer Unix timestamp.

Version Description 5.1.0 As of PHP 5.1.0, the {is_dst} parameter became
deprecated. As a result, the new timezone handling features should be used
instead.

|gmmktime| on Windows boundary

<?php >
  gmmktime(0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1970); // valid in GMT and west, invalid in east
?>





|mktime| |date| |time|

vim:ft=help:
