*iconv_mime_encode* -- Composes a MIME header field

  string iconv_mime_encode(string field_name, string field_value [, array preferences])~

Composes and returns a string that represents a valid MIME header field, which
looks like the following:

  Subject: =?ISO-8859-1?Q?Pr=FCfung_f=FCr?= Entwerfen von einer MIME kopfzeile

In the above example, "Subject" is the field name and the portion that begins
with "=?ISO-8859-1?..." is the field value.

{field_name} The field name.

{field_value} The field value.

{preferences} You can control the behaviour of |iconv_mime_encode| by
specifying an associative array that contains configuration items to the
optional third parameter {preferences}. The items supported by
|iconv_mime_encode| are listed below. Note that item names are treated
case-sensitive. Configuration items supported by |iconv_mime_encode| Item Type
Description Default value Example scheme string Specifies the method to encode
a field value by. The value of this item may be either "B" or "Q", where "B"
stands for base64 encoding scheme and "Q" stands for quoted-printable encoding
scheme. B B input-charset string Specifies the character set in which the
first parameter {field_name} and the second parameter {field_value} are
presented. If not given, |iconv_mime_encode| assumes those parameters are
presented to it in the iconv.internal_encoding ini setting.
iconv.internal_encoding ISO-8859-1 output-charset string Specifies the
character set to use to compose the MIME header. iconv.internal_encoding UTF-8
line-length integer Specifies the maximum length of the header lines. The
resulting header is "folded" to a set of multiple lines in case the resulting
header field would be longer than the value of this parameter, according to
RFC2822 - Internet Message Format. If not given, the length will be limited to
76 characters. 76 996 line-break-chars string Specifies the sequence of
characters to append to each line as an end-of-line sign when "folding" is
performed on a long header field. If not given, this defaults to "\r\n" (CR
LF). Note that this parameter is always treated as an ASCII string regardless
of the value of input-charset. \r\n \n

Returns an encoded MIME field on success, or FALSE if an error occurs during
the encoding.

|iconv_mime_encode| example

<?php >
  $preferences = array(
      "input-charset" => "ISO-8859-1",
      "output-charset" => "UTF-8",
      "line-length" => 76,
      "line-break-chars" => "\n"
  );
  $preferences["scheme"] = "Q";
  // This yields "Subject: =?UTF-8?Q?Pr=C3=BCfung=20Pr=C3=BCfung?="
  echo iconv_mime_encode("Subject", "Pr端fung Pr端fung", $preferences);
  
  $preferences["scheme"] = "B";
  // This yields "Subject: =?UTF-8?B?UHLDvGZ1bmcgUHLDvGZ1bmc=?="
  echo iconv_mime_encode("Subject", "Pr端fung Pr端fung", $preferences);
?>





|imap_binary| |mb_encode_mimeheader| |imap_8bit| |quoted_printable_encode|

vim:ft=help:
