*imagefttext* -- Write text to the image using fonts using FreeType 2

  array imagefttext(resource image, float size, float angle, int x, int y, int color, string fontfile, string text [, array extrainfo])~

{ image}An image resource, returned by one of the image creation functions,
such as |imagecreatetruecolor|.

{size} The font size to use in points.

{angle} The angle in degrees, with 0 degrees being left-to-right reading text.
Higher values represent a counter-clockwise rotation. For example, a value of
90 would result in bottom-to-top reading text.

{x} The coordinates given by {x} and {y} will define the basepoint of the
first character (roughly the lower-left corner of the character). This is
different from the |imagestring|, where {x} and {y} define the upper-left
corner of the first character. For example, "top left" is 0, 0.

{y} The y-ordinate. This sets the position of the fonts baseline, not the very
bottom of the character.

{color} The index of the desired color for the text, see |imagecolorexact|.

{fontfile} The path to the TrueType font you wish to use.

Depending on which version of the GD library PHP is using, when {fontfile}
does not begin with a leading / then .ttf will be appended to the filename and
the library will attempt to search for that filename along a library-defined
font path.

When using versions of the GD library lower than 2.0.18, a space character,
rather than a semicolon, was used as the 'path separator' for different font
files. Unintentional use of this feature will result in the warning message:
Warning: Could not find/open font. For these affected versions, the only
solution is moving the font to a path which does not contain spaces.

In many cases where a font resides in the same directory as the script using
it the following trick will alleviate any include problems.

<?php >
  // Set the enviroment variable for GD
  putenv('GDFONTPATH=' . realpath('.'));
  
  // Name the font to be used (note the lack of the .ttf extension)
  $font = 'SomeFont';
?>



{text} Text to be inserted into image.

{extrainfo} Possible array indexes for {extrainfo} Key Type Meaning
linespacing float Defines drawing linespacing

This function returns an array defining the four points of the box, starting
in the lower left and moving counter-clockwise: 0 lower left x-coordinate 1
lower left y-coordinate 2 lower right x-coordinate 3 lower right y-coordinate
4 upper right x-coordinate 5 upper right y-coordinate 6 upper left
x-coordinate 7 upper left y-coordinate

|imagefttext| example

<?php >
  // Create a 300x100 image
  $im = imagecreatetruecolor(300, 100);
  $red = imagecolorallocate($im, 0xFF, 0x00, 0x00);
  $black = imagecolorallocate($im, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00);
  
  // Make the background red
  imagefilledrectangle($im, 0, 0, 299, 99, $red);
  
  // Path to our ttf font file
  $font_file = './arial.ttf';
  
  // Draw the text 'PHP Manual' using font size 13
  imagefttext($im, 13, 0, 105, 55, $black, $font_file, 'PHP Manual');
  
  // Output image to the browser
  header('Content-Type: image/png');
  
  imagepng($im);
  imagedestroy($im);
?>





This function requires GD 2.0.1 or later (2.0.28 or later is recommended).

This function is only available if PHP is compiled with freetype support
(--with-freetype-dir=DIR)

Version Description 4.3.5 {extrainfo} was made optional.

vim:ft=help:
