*imap_open* -- Open an IMAP stream to a mailbox

  resource imap_open(string mailbox, string username, string password [, int options [, int n_retries [, array params]]])~

Opens an IMAP stream to a {mailbox}.

This function can also be used to open streams to POP3 and NNTP servers, but
some functions and features are only available on IMAP servers.

{mailbox} A mailbox name consists of a server and a mailbox path on this
server. The special name INBOX stands for the current users personal mailbox.
Mailbox names that contain international characters besides those in the
printable ASCII space have to be encoded width |imap_utf7_encode|.

The server part, which is enclosed in '{' and '}', consists of the servers
name or ip address, an optional port (prefixed by ':'), and an optional
protocol specification (prefixed by '/').

The server part is mandatory in all mailbox parameters.

All names which start with { are remote names, and are in the form "{"
remote_system_name [":" port] [flags] "}" [mailbox_name] where:
remote_system_name - Internet domain name or bracketed IP address of server.

port - optional TCP port number, default is the default port for that service

flags - optional flags, see following table.

mailbox_name - remote mailbox name, default is INBOX

Optional flags for names Flag Description /service=service mailbox access
service, default is "imap" /user=user remote user name for login on the server
/authuser=user remote authentication user; if specified this is the user name
whose password is used (e.g. administrator) /anonymous remote access as
anonymous user /debug record protocol telemetry in application's debug log
/secure do not transmit a plaintext password over the network /imap, /imap2,
/imap2bis, /imap4, /imap4rev1 equivalent to /service=imap /pop3 equivalent to
/service=pop3 /nntp equivalent to /service=nntp /norsh do not use rsh or ssh
to establish a preauthenticated IMAP session /ssl use the Secure Socket Layer
to encrypt the session /validate-cert validate certificates from TLS/SSL
server (this is the default behavior) /novalidate-cert do not validate
certificates from TLS/SSL server, needed if server uses self-signed
certificates /tls force use of start-TLS to encrypt the session, and reject
connection to servers that do not support it /notls do not do start-TLS to
encrypt the session, even with servers that support it /readonly request
read-only mailbox open (IMAP only; ignored on NNTP, and an error with SMTP and
POP3)

{username} The user name

{password} The password associated with the {username}

{options} The {options} are a bit mask with one or more of the following:
OP_READONLY - Open mailbox read-only

OP_ANONYMOUS - Don't use or update a .newsrc for news (NNTP only)

OP_HALFOPEN - For IMAP and NNTP names, open a connection but don't open a
mailbox.

CL_EXPUNGE - Expunge mailbox automatically upon mailbox close (see also
|imap_delete| and |imap_expunge|)

OP_DEBUG - Debug protocol negotiations

OP_SHORTCACHE - Short (elt-only) caching

OP_SILENT - Don't pass up events (internal use)

OP_PROTOTYPE - Return driver prototype

OP_SECURE - Don't do non-secure authentication

{n_retries} Number of maximum connect attempts

{params} Connection parameters, the following (string) keys maybe used to set
one or more connection parameters: DISABLE_AUTHENTICATOR - Disable
authentication properties

Returns an IMAP stream on success or FALSE on error.

Version Description 5.3.2 {params} added 5.2.0 {n_retries} added

Different use of |imap_open|

<?php >
  // To connect to an IMAP server running on port 143 on the local machine,
  // do the following:
  $mbox = imap_open("{localhost:143}INBOX", "user_id", "password");
  
  // To connect to a POP3 server on port 110 on the local server, use:
  $mbox = imap_open ("{localhost:110/pop3}INBOX", "user_id", "password");
  
  // To connect to an SSL IMAP or POP3 server, add /ssl after the protocol
  // specification:
  $mbox = imap_open ("{localhost:993/imap/ssl}INBOX", "user_id", "password");
  
  // To connect to an SSL IMAP or POP3 server with a self-signed certificate,
  // add /ssl/novalidate-cert after the protocol specification:
  $mbox = imap_open ("{localhost:995/pop3/ssl/novalidate-cert}", "user_id", "password");
  
  // To connect to an NNTP server on port 119 on the local server, use:
  $nntp = imap_open ("{localhost:119/nntp}comp.test", "", "");
  // To connect to a remote server replace "localhost" with the name or the
  // IP address of the server you want to connect to.
?>



|imap_open| example

<?php >
  $mbox = imap_open("{imap.example.org:143}", "username", "password");
  
  echo "<h1>Mailboxes</h1>\n";
  $folders = imap_listmailbox($mbox, "{imap.example.org:143}", "*");
  
  if ($folders == false) {
      echo "Call failed<br />\n";
  } else {
      foreach ($folders as $val) {
          echo $val . "<br />\n";
      }
  }
  
  echo "<h1>Headers in INBOX</h1>\n";
  $headers = imap_headers($mbox);
  
  if ($headers == false) {
      echo "Call failed<br />\n";
  } else {
      foreach ($headers as $val) {
          echo $val . "<br />\n";
      }
  }
  
  imap_close($mbox);
?>





|imap_close|

vim:ft=help:
