*ldap_list* -- Single-level search

  resource ldap_list(resource link_identifier, string base_dn, string filter [, array attributes [, int attrsonly [, int sizelimit [, int timelimit [, int deref]]]]])~

Performs the search for a specified {filter} on the directory with the scope
LDAP_SCOPE_ONELEVEL.

LDAP_SCOPE_ONELEVEL means that the search should only return information that
is at the level immediately below the {base_dn} given in the call. (Equivalent
to typing "ls" and getting a list of files and folders in the current working
directory.)

{link_identifier} An LDAP link identifier, returned by |ldap_connect|.

{base_dn} The base DN for the directory.

{filter}

{attributes} An array of the required attributes, e.g. array("mail", "sn",
"cn"). Note that the "dn" is always returned irrespective of which attributes
types are requested.

Using this parameter is much more efficient than the default action (which is
to return all attributes and their associated values). The use of this
parameter should therefore be considered good practice.

{attrsonly} Should be set to 1 if only attribute types are wanted. If set to 0
both attributes types and attribute values are fetched which is the default
behaviour.

{sizelimit} Enables you to limit the count of entries fetched. Setting this to
0 means no limit.

This parameter can NOT override server-side preset sizelimit. You can set it
lower though.

Some directory server hosts will be configured to return no more than a preset
number of entries. If this occurs, the server will indicate that it has only
returned a partial results set. This also occurs if you use this parameter to
limit the count of fetched entries.

{timelimit} Sets the number of seconds how long is spend on the search.
Setting this to 0 means no limit.

This parameter can NOT override server-side preset timelimit. You can set it
lower though.

{deref} Specifies how aliases should be handled during the search. It can be
one of the following: LDAP_DEREF_NEVER - (default) aliases are never
dereferenced.

LDAP_DEREF_SEARCHING - aliases should be dereferenced during the search but
not when locating the base object of the search.

LDAP_DEREF_FINDING - aliases should be dereferenced when locating the base
object but not during the search.

LDAP_DEREF_ALWAYS - aliases should be dereferenced always.

Returns a search result identifier or FALSE on error.

Version Description 4.0.5 Parallel searches support was added. See
|ldap_search| for details. 4.0.2 The {attrsonly}, {sizelimit}, {timelimit} and
{deref} were added.

Produce a list of all organizational units of an organization

<?php >
  // $ds is a valid link identifier for a directory server
  
  $basedn = "o=My Company, c=US";
  $justthese = array("ou");
  
  $sr = ldap_list($ds, $basedn, "ou=*", $justthese);
  
  $info = ldap_get_entries($ds, $sr);
  
  for ($i=0; $i < $info["count"]; $i++) {
      echo $info[$i]["ou"][0];
  }
?>





|ldap_search|

vim:ft=help:
