*localeconv* -- Get numeric formatting information

  array localeconv()~

Returns an associative array containing localized numeric and monetary
formatting information.

|localeconv| returns data based upon the current locale as set by |setlocale|.
The associative array that is returned contains the following fields: Array
element Description decimal_point Decimal point character thousands_sep
Thousands separator grouping Array containing numeric groupings
int_curr_symbol International currency symbol (i.e. USD) currency_symbol Local
currency symbol (i.e. $) mon_decimal_point Monetary decimal point character
mon_thousands_sep Monetary thousands separator mon_grouping Array containing
monetary groupings positive_sign Sign for positive values negative_sign Sign
for negative values int_frac_digits International fractional digits
frac_digits Local fractional digits p_cs_precedes TRUE if currency_symbol
precedes a positive value, FALSE if it succeeds one p_sep_by_space TRUE if a
space separates currency_symbol from a positive value, FALSE otherwise
n_cs_precedes TRUE if currency_symbol precedes a negative value, FALSE if it
succeeds one n_sep_by_space TRUE if a space separates currency_symbol from a
negative value, FALSE otherwise p_sign_posn 0 - Parentheses surround the
quantity and currency_symbol 1 - The sign string precedes the quantity and
currency_symbol 2 - The sign string succeeds the quantity and currency_symbol
3 - The sign string immediately precedes the currency_symbol 4 - The sign
string immediately succeeds the currency_symbol n_sign_posn 0 - Parentheses
surround the quantity and currency_symbol 1 - The sign string precedes the
quantity and currency_symbol 2 - The sign string succeeds the quantity and
currency_symbol 3 - The sign string immediately precedes the currency_symbol 4
- The sign string immediately succeeds the currency_symbol

The p_sign_posn, and n_sign_posn contain a string of formatting options. Each
number representing one of the above listed conditions.

The grouping fields contain arrays that define the way numbers should be
grouped. For example, the monetary grouping field for the nl_NL locale (in
UTF-8 mode with the euro sign), would contain a 2 item array with the values 3
and 3. The higher the index in the array, the farther left the grouping is. If
an array element is equal to CHAR_MAX, no further grouping is done. If an
array element is equal to 0, the previous element should be used.

|localeconv| example

<?php >
  if (false !== setlocale(LC_ALL, 'nl_NL.UTF-8@euro')) {
      $locale_info = localeconv();
      print_r($locale_info);
  }
?>

The above example will output:

  Array
  (
      [decimal_point] => .
      [thousands_sep] =>
      [int_curr_symbol] => EUR
      [currency_symbol] => â‚¬
      [mon_decimal_point] => ,
      [mon_thousands_sep] =>
      [positive_sign] =>
      [negative_sign] => -
      [int_frac_digits] => 2
      [frac_digits] => 2
      [p_cs_precedes] => 1
      [p_sep_by_space] => 1
      [n_cs_precedes] => 1
      [n_sep_by_space] => 1
      [p_sign_posn] => 1
      [n_sign_posn] => 2
      [grouping] => Array
          (
          )
  
      [mon_grouping] => Array
          (
              [0] => 3
              [1] => 3
          )
  
  )



|setlocale|

vim:ft=help:
