*nl_langinfo* -- Query language and locale information

  string nl_langinfo(int item)~

|nl_langinfo| is used to access individual elements of the locale categories.
Unlike |localeconv|, which returns all of the elements, |nl_langinfo| allows
you to select any specific element.

{item} {item} may be an integer value of the element or the constant name of
the element. The following is a list of constant names for {item} that may be
used and their description. Some of these constants may not be defined or hold
no value for certain locales. nl_langinfo Constants Constant Description
LC_TIME Category Constants ABDAY_(1-7) Abbreviated name of n-th day of the
week. DAY_(1-7) Name of the n-th day of the week (DAY_1 = Sunday).
ABMON_(1-12) Abbreviated name of the n-th month of the year. MON_(1-12) Name
of the n-th month of the year. AM_STR String for Ante meridian. PM_STR String
for Post meridian. D_T_FMT String that can be used as the format string for
|strftime| to represent time and date. D_FMT String that can be used as the
format string for |strftime| to represent date. T_FMT String that can be used
as the format string for |strftime| to represent time. T_FMT_AMPM String that
can be used as the format string for |strftime| to represent time in 12-hour
format with ante/post meridian. ERA Alternate era. ERA_YEAR Year in alternate
era format. ERA_D_T_FMT Date and time in alternate era format (string can be
used in |strftime|). ERA_D_FMT Date in alternate era format (string can be
used in |strftime|). ERA_T_FMT Time in alternate era format (string can be
used in |strftime|). LC_MONETARY Category Constants INT_CURR_SYMBOL
International currency symbol. CURRENCY_SYMBOL Local currency symbol. CRNCYSTR
Same value as CURRENCY_SYMBOL. MON_DECIMAL_POINT Decimal point character.
MON_THOUSANDS_SEP Thousands separator (groups of three digits). MON_GROUPING
Like "grouping" element. POSITIVE_SIGN Sign for positive values. NEGATIVE_SIGN
Sign for negative values. INT_FRAC_DIGITS International fractional digits.
FRAC_DIGITS Local fractional digits. P_CS_PRECEDES Returns 1 if
CURRENCY_SYMBOL precedes a positive value. P_SEP_BY_SPACE Returns 1 if a space
separates CURRENCY_SYMBOL from a positive value. N_CS_PRECEDES Returns 1 if
CURRENCY_SYMBOL precedes a negative value. N_SEP_BY_SPACE Returns 1 if a space
separates CURRENCY_SYMBOL from a negative value. P_SIGN_POSN Returns 0 if
parentheses surround the quantity and CURRENCY_SYMBOL.

Returns 1 if the sign string precedes the quantity and CURRENCY_SYMBOL.

Returns 2 if the sign string follows the quantity and CURRENCY_SYMBOL.

Returns 3 if the sign string immediately precedes the CURRENCY_SYMBOL.

Returns 4 if the sign string immediately follows the CURRENCY_SYMBOL.

N_SIGN_POSN LC_NUMERIC Category Constants DECIMAL_POINT Decimal point
character. RADIXCHAR Same value as DECIMAL_POINT. THOUSANDS_SEP Separator
character for thousands (groups of three digits). THOUSEP Same value as
THOUSANDS_SEP. GROUPING LC_MESSAGES Category Constants YESEXPR Regex string
for matching "yes" input. NOEXPR Regex string for matching "no" input. YESSTR
Output string for "yes". NOSTR Output string for "no". LC_CTYPE Category
Constants CODESET Return a string with the name of the character encoding.

Returns the element as a string, or FALSE if {item} is not valid.

This function is not implemented on Windows platforms.

|setlocale| |localeconv|

vim:ft=help:
