*oci_pconnect* -- Connect to an Oracle database using a persistent connection

  resource oci_pconnect(string username, string password [, string connection_string [, string character_set [, int session_mode]]])~

Creates a persistent connection to an Oracle server and logs on.

Persistent connections are cached and re-used between requests, resulting in
reduced overhead on each page load; a typical PHP application will have a
single persistent connection open against an Oracle server per Apache child
process (or PHP FastCGI/CGI process). See the Persistent Database Connections
section for more information.

{username} The Oracle user name.

{password} The password for {username}.

{connection_string} Contains the Oracle instance to connect to. It can be an
Easy Connect string, or a Connect Name from the tnsnames.ora file, or the name
of a local Oracle instance.

If not specified, PHP uses environment variables such as TWO_TASK (on Linux)
or LOCAL (on Windows) and ORACLE_SID to determine the Oracle instance to
connect to.

To use the Easy Connect naming method, PHP must be linked with Oracle 10g or
greater Client libraries. The Easy Connect string for Oracle 10g is of the
form: [//]host_name[:port][/service_name]. With Oracle 11g, the syntax is:
[//]host_name[:port][/service_name][:server_type][/instance_name]. Service
names can be found by running the Oracle utility lsnrctl status on the
database server machine.

The tnsnames.ora file can be in the Oracle Net search path, which includes
$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin and /etc. Alternatively set TNS_ADMIN so that
$TNS_ADMIN/tnsnames.ora is read. Make sure the web daemon has read access to
the file.

{character_set} Determines the character set used by the Oracle Client
libraries. The character set does not need to match the character set used by
the database. If it doesn't match, Oracle will do its best to convert data to
and from the database character set. Depending on the character sets this may
not give usable results. Conversion also adds some time overhead.

If not specified, the Oracle Client libraries determine a character set from
the NLS_LANG environment variable.

Passing this parameter can reduce connection time.

{session_mode} This parameter is available since version PHP 5 (PECL OCI8 1.1)
and accepts the following values: OCI_DEFAULT, OCI_SYSOPER and OCI_SYSDBA. If
either OCI_SYSOPER or OCI_SYSDBA were specified, this function will try to
establish privileged connection using external credentials. Privileged
connections are disabled by default. To enable them you need to set
oci8.privileged_connect to On.

PHP 5.3 (PECL OCI8 1.3.4) introduced the OCI_CRED_EXT mode value. This tells
Oracle to use External or OS authentication, which must be configured in the
database. The OCI_CRED_EXT flag can only be used with username of "/" and a
empty password. oci8.privileged_connect may be On or Off.

OCI_CRED_EXT may be combined with the OCI_SYSOPER or OCI_SYSDBA modes.

OCI_CRED_EXT is not supported on Windows for security reasons.

Returns a connection identifier or FALSE on error.

Starting with PHP 5.1.2 and PECL oci8 1.1, the lifetime and maximum number of
persistent Oracle connections can be tuned by setting the following
configuration values: oci8.persistent_timeout, oci8.ping_interval and
oci8.max_persistent.

In PHP versions before 5.0.0 you must use |ociplogon| instead. The old
function name can still be used in current versions, however it is deprecated
and not recommended.

|oci_connect| |oci_new_connect|

vim:ft=help:
