*openlog* -- Open connection to system logger

  bool openlog(string ident, int option, int facility)~

|openlog| opens a connection to the system logger for a program.

The use of |openlog| is optional. It will automatically be called by |syslog|
if necessary, in which case {ident} will default to FALSE.

{ident} The string {ident} is added to each message.

{option} The {option} argument is used to indicate what logging options will
be used when generating a log message. |openlog| Options Constant Description
LOG_CONS if there is an error while sending data to the system logger, write
directly to the system console LOG_NDELAY open the connection to the logger
immediately LOG_ODELAY (default) delay opening the connection until the first
message is logged LOG_PERROR print log message also to standard error LOG_PID
include PID with each message You can use one or more of this options. When
using multiple options you need to OR them, i.e. to open the connection
immediately, write to the console and include the PID in each message, you
will use: LOG_CONS | LOG_NDELAY | LOG_PID

{facility} The {facility} argument is used to specify what type of program is
logging the message. This allows you to specify (in your machine's syslog
configuration) how messages coming from different facilities will be handled.
|openlog| Facilities Constant Description LOG_AUTH security/authorization
messages (use LOG_AUTHPRIV instead in systems where that constant is defined)
LOG_AUTHPRIV security/authorization messages (private) LOG_CRON clock daemon
(cron and at) LOG_DAEMON other system daemons LOG_KERN kernel messages
LOG_LOCAL0 ... LOG_LOCAL7 reserved for local use, these are not available in
Windows LOG_LPR line printer subsystem LOG_MAIL mail subsystem LOG_NEWS USENET
news subsystem LOG_SYSLOG messages generated internally by syslogd LOG_USER
generic user-level messages LOG_UUCP UUCP subsystem

LOG_USER is the only valid log type under Windows operating systems

Returns TRUE on success or &false; on failure.

|syslog| |closelog|

vim:ft=help:
