*pg_prepare* -- Submits a request to create a prepared statement with the given
parameters, and waits for completion.

  resource pg_prepare([resource connection, string stmtname, string query])~

|pg_prepare| creates a prepared statement for later execution with
|pg_execute| or |pg_send_execute|. This feature allows commands that will be
used repeatedly to be parsed and planned just once, rather than each time they
are executed. |pg_prepare| is supported only against PostgreSQL 7.4 or higher
connections; it will fail when using earlier versions.

The function creates a prepared statement named {stmtname} from the {query}
string, which must contain a single SQL command. {stmtname} may be "" to
create an unnamed statement, in which case any pre-existing unnamed statement
is automatically replaced; otherwise it is an error if the statement name is
already defined in the current session. If any parameters are used, they are
referred to in the {query} as $1, $2, etc.

Prepared statements for use with |pg_prepare| can also be created by executing
SQL PREPARE statements. (But |pg_prepare| is more flexible since it does not
require parameter types to be pre-specified.) Also, although there is no PHP
function for deleting a prepared statement, the SQL DEALLOCATE statement can
be used for that purpose.

{connection} PostgreSQL database connection resource. When {connection} is not
present, the default connection is used. The default connection is the last
connection made by |pg_connect| or |pg_pconnect|.

{stmtname} The name to give the prepared statement. Must be unique
per-connection. If "" is specified, then an unnamed statement is created,
overwriting any previously defined unnamed statement.

{query} The parameterized SQL statement. Must contain only a single statement.
(multiple statements separated by semi-colons are not allowed.) If any
parameters are used, they are referred to as $1, $2, etc.

A query result resource on success or FALSE on failure.

Using |pg_prepare|

<?php >
  // Connect to a database named "mary"
  $dbconn = pg_connect("dbname=mary");
  
  // Prepare a query for execution
  $result = pg_prepare($dbconn, "my_query", 'SELECT * FROM shops WHERE name = $1');
  
  // Execute the prepared query.  Note that it is not necessary to escape
  // the string "Joe's Widgets" in any way
  $result = pg_execute($dbconn, "my_query", array("Joe's Widgets"));
  
  // Execute the same prepared query, this time with a different parameter
  $result = pg_execute($dbconn, "my_query", array("Clothes Clothes Clothes"));
?>





|pg_execute| |pg_send_execute|

vim:ft=help:
