*phpinfo* -- Outputs information about PHP's configuration

  bool phpinfo([int what])~

Outputs a large amount of information about the current state of PHP. This
includes information about PHP compilation options and extensions, the PHP
version, server information and environment (if compiled as a module), the PHP
environment, OS version information, paths, master and local values of
configuration options, HTTP headers, and the PHP License.

Because every system is setup differently, |phpinfo| is commonly used to check
configuration settings and for available predefined variables on a given
system.

|phpinfo| is also a valuable debugging tool as it contains all EGPCS
(Environment, GET, POST, Cookie, Server) data.

{what} The output may be customized by passing one or more of the following
constants bitwise values summed together in the optional {what} parameter. One
can also combine the respective constants or bitwise values together with the
or operator.

|phpinfo| options Name (constant) Value Description INFO_GENERAL 1 The
configuration line, php.ini location, build date, Web Server, System and more.
INFO_CREDITS 2 PHP Credits. See also |phpcredits|. INFO_CONFIGURATION 4
Current Local and Master values for PHP directives. See also |ini_get|.
INFO_MODULES 8 Loaded modules and their respective settings. See also
|get_loaded_extensions|. INFO_ENVIRONMENT 16 Environment Variable information
that's also available in $_ENV. INFO_VARIABLES 32 Shows all predefined
variables from EGPCS (Environment, GET, POST, Cookie, Server). INFO_LICENSE 64
PHP License information. See also the license FAQ. INFO_ALL -1 Shows all of
the above.

Returns TRUE on success or &false; on failure.

Version Description 5.2.2 The "Loaded Configuration File" information was
added, when before only "Configuration File (php.ini) Path" existed.

|phpinfo| Example

<?php >
  // Show all information, defaults to INFO_ALL
  phpinfo();
  
  // Show just the module information.
  // phpinfo(8) yields identical results.
  phpinfo(INFO_MODULES);
?>





Parts of the information displayed are disabled when the expose_php
configuration setting is set to off. This includes the PHP and Zend logos, and
the credits.

|phpinfo| outputs plain text instead of HTML when using the CLI mode.

|phpversion| |phpcredits| |php_logo_guid| |ini_get| |ini_set|
|get_loaded_extensions| Predefined Variables

vim:ft=help:
