*posix_getrlimit* -- Return info about system resource limits

  array posix_getrlimit()~

|posix_getrlimit| returns an array of information about the current resource's
soft and hard limits.

Each resource has an associated soft and hard limit. The soft limit is the
value that the kernel enforces for the corresponding resource. The hard limit
acts as a ceiling for the soft limit. An unprivileged process may only set its
soft limit to a value from 0 to the hard limit, and irreversibly lower its
hard limit.

Returns an associative array of elements for each limit that is defined. Each
limit has a soft and a hard limit. List of possible limits returned Limit name
Limit description core The maximum size of the core file. When 0, not core
files are created. When core files are larger than this size, they will be
truncated at this size. totalmem The maximum size of the memory of the
process, in bytes. virtualmem The maximum size of the virtual memory for the
process, in bytes. data The maximum size of the data segment for the process,
in bytes. stack The maximum size of the process stack, in bytes. rss The
maximum number of virtual pages resident in RAM maxproc The maximum number of
processes that can be created for the real user ID of the calling process.
memlock The maximum number of bytes of memory that may be locked into RAM. cpu
The amount of time the process is allowed to use the CPU. filesize The maximum
size of the data segment for the process, in bytes. openfiles One more than
the maximum number of open file descriptors.

Example use of |posix_getrlimit|

<?php >
  $limits = posix_getrlimit();
  
  print_r($limits);
?>

The above example will output something similar to:

  Array
  (
      [soft core] => 0
      [hard core] => unlimited
      [soft data] => unlimited
      [hard data] => unlimited
      [soft stack] => 8388608
      [hard stack] => unlimited
      [soft totalmem] => unlimited
      [hard totalmem] => unlimited
      [soft rss] => unlimited
      [hard rss] => unlimited
      [soft maxproc] => unlimited
      [hard maxproc] => unlimited
      [soft memlock] => unlimited
      [hard memlock] => unlimited
      [soft cpu] => unlimited
      [hard cpu] => unlimited
      [soft filesize] => unlimited
      [hard filesize] => unlimited
      [soft openfiles] => 1024
      [hard openfiles] => 1024
  )



This is a not POSIX function, but is common on BSD and System V systems. If
the system does not support this function, then it will not be included at
compile time. This may be checked with |function_exists|.

man page GETRLIMIT(2)

vim:ft=help:
