*printer_set_option* -- Configure the printer connection

  bool printer_set_option(resource printer_handle, int option, mixed value)~

The function sets options for the current connection.

{printer_handle} {printer_handle} must be a valid printer handle.

{option} Option can be one of the following constants: PRINTER_COPIES: sets
how many copies should be printed, {value} must be an integer.

PRINTER_MODE: specifies the type of data (text, raw or emf), {value} must be a
string.

PRINTER_TITLE: specifies the name of the document, {value} must be a string.

PRINTER_ORIENTATION: specifies the orientation of the paper, {value} can be
either PRINTER_ORIENTATION_PORTRAIT or PRINTER_ORIENTATION_LANDSCAPE

PRINTER_RESOLUTION_Y: specifies the y-resolution in DPI, {value} must be an
integer.

PRINTER_RESOLUTION_X: specifies the x-resolution in DPI, {value} must be an
integer.

PRINTER_PAPER_FORMAT: specifies a predefined paper format, set {value} to
PRINTER_FORMAT_CUSTOM if you want to specify a custom format with
PRINTER_PAPER_WIDTH and PRINTER_PAPER_LENGTH. {value} can be one of the
following constants.

PRINTER_FORMAT_CUSTOM: let's you specify a custom paper format.

PRINTER_FORMAT_LETTER: specifies standard letter format (8 1/2- by 11-inches).

PRINTER_FORMAT_LEGAL: specifies standard legal format (8 1/2- by 14-inches).

PRINTER_FORMAT_A3: specifies standard A3 format (297- by 420-millimeters).

PRINTER_FORMAT_A4: specifies standard A4 format (210- by 297-millimeters).

PRINTER_FORMAT_A5: specifies standard A5 format (148- by 210-millimeters).

PRINTER_FORMAT_B4: specifies standard B4 format (250- by 354-millimeters).

PRINTER_FORMAT_B5: specifies standard B5 format (182- by 257-millimeter).

PRINTER_FORMAT_FOLIO: specifies standard FOLIO format (8 1/2- by 13-inch).

PRINTER_PAPER_LENGTH: if PRINTER_PAPER_FORMAT is set to PRINTER_FORMAT_CUSTOM,
PRINTER_PAPER_LENGTH specifies a custom paper length in mm, {value} must be an
integer.

PRINTER_PAPER_WIDTH: if PRINTER_PAPER_FORMAT is set to PRINTER_FORMAT_CUSTOM,
PRINTER_PAPER_WIDTH specifies a custom paper width in mm, {value} must be an
integer.

PRINTER_SCALE: specifies the factor by which the printed output is to be
scaled. the page size is scaled from the physical page size by a factor of
scale/100. for example if you set the scale to 50, the output would be half of
its original size. {value} must be an integer.

PRINTER_BACKGROUND_COLOR: specifies the background color for the actual device
context, {value} must be a string containing the rgb information in hex format
i.e. "005533".

PRINTER_TEXT_COLOR: specifies the text color for the actual device context,
{value} must be a string containing the rgb information in hex format i.e.
"005533".

PRINTER_TEXT_ALIGN: specifies the text alignment for the actual device
context, {value} can be combined through OR'ing the following constants:

PRINTER_TA_BASELINE: text will be aligned at the base line.

PRINTER_TA_BOTTOM: text will be aligned at the bottom.

PRINTER_TA_TOP: text will be aligned at the top.

PRINTER_TA_CENTER: text will be aligned at the center.

PRINTER_TA_LEFT: text will be aligned at the left.

PRINTER_TA_RIGHT: text will be aligned at the right.

{value} The {option} value.

Returns TRUE on success or &false; on failure.

|printer_set_option| example

<?php >
  $handle = printer_open();
  printer_set_option($handle, PRINTER_SCALE, 75);
  printer_set_option($handle, PRINTER_TEXT_ALIGN, PRINTER_TA_LEFT);
  printer_close($handle);
?>





vim:ft=help:
