*ps_begin_page* -- Start a new page

  bool ps_begin_page(resource psdoc, float width, float height)~

Starts a new page. Although the parameters {width} and {height} imply a
different page size for each page, this is not possible in PostScript. The
first call of |ps_begin_page| will set the page size for the whole document.
Consecutive calls will have no effect, except for creating a new page. The
situation is different if you intent to convert the PostScript document into
PDF. This function places pdfmarks into the document which can set the size
for each page indiviually. The resulting PDF document will have different page
sizes.

Though PostScript does not know different page sizes, pslib places a bounding
box for each page into the document. This size is evaluated by some PostScript
viewers and will have precedence over the BoundingBox in the Header of the
document. This can lead to unexpected results when you set a BoundingBox whose
lower left corner is not (0, 0), because the bounding box of the page will
always have a lower left corner (0, 0) and overwrites the global setting.

Each page is encapsulated into save/restore. This means, that most of the
settings made on one page will not be retained on the next page.

If there is up to the first call of |ps_begin_page| no call of |ps_findfont|,
then the header of the PostScript document will be output and the bounding box
will be set to the size of the first page. The lower left corner of the
bounding box is set to (0, 0). If |ps_findfont| was called before, then the
header has been output already, and the document will not have a valid
bounding box. In order to prevent this, one should call |ps_set_info| to set
the info field BoundingBox and possibly Orientation before any |ps_findfont|
or |ps_begin_page| calls.

Up to version 0.2.6 of pslib, this function will always overwrite the
BoundingBox and Orientation, if it has been set before with |ps_set_info| and
|ps_findfont| has not been called before.

{psdoc} Resource identifier of the postscript file as returned by |ps_new|.

{width} The width of the page in pixel, e.g. 596 for A4 format.

{height} The height of the page in pixel, e.g. 842 for A4 format.

Returns TRUE on success or &false; on failure.

|ps_end_page| |ps_findfont| |ps_set_info|

vim:ft=help:
