*ps_findfont* -- Loads a font

  int ps_findfont(resource psdoc, string fontname, string encoding [, bool embed])~

Loads a font for later use. Before text is output with a loaded font it must
be set with |ps_setfont|. This function needs the adobe font metric file in
order to calculate the space used up by the characters. A font which is loaded
within a page will only be available on that page. Fonts which are to be used
in the complete document have to be loaded before the first call of
|ps_begin_page|. Calling |ps_findfont| between pages will make that font
available for all following pages.

The name of the afm file must be {fontname}.afm. If the font shall be embedded
the file {fontname}.pfb containing the font outline must be present as well.

Calling |ps_findfont| before the first page requires to output the postscript
header which includes the BoundingBox for the whole document. Usually the
BoundingBox is set with the first call of |ps_begin_page| which now comes
after |ps_findfont|. Consequently the BoundingBox has not been set and a
warning will be issued when |ps_findfont| is called. In order to prevent this
situation, one should call |ps_set_parameter| to set the BoundingBox before
|ps_findfont| is called.

{psdoc} Resource identifier of the postscript file as returned by |ps_new|.

{fontname} The name of the font.

{encoding} |ps_findfont| will try to load the file passed in the parameter
{encoding}. Encoding files are of the same syntax as those used by dvips(1).
They contain a font encoding vector (which is currently not used but must be
present) and a list of extra ligatures to extend the list of ligatures derived
from the afm file.

{encoding} can be NULL or the empty string if the default encoding (TeXBase1)
shall be used.

If the encoding is set to builtin then there will be no reencoding and the
font specific encoding will be used. This is very useful with symbol fonts.

{embed} If set to a value >0 the font will be embedded into the document. This
requires the font outline (.pfb file) to be present.

Returns the identifier of the font or zero in case of an error. The identifier
is a positive number.

|ps_begin_page| |ps_setfont|

vim:ft=help:
