*ps_show_boxed* -- Output text in a box

  int ps_show_boxed(resource psdoc, string text, float left, float bottom, float width, float height, string hmode [, string feature])~

Outputs a text in a given box. The lower left corner of the box is at ({left},
{bottom}). Line breaks will be inserted where needed. Multiple spaces are
treated as one. Tabulators are treated as spaces.

The text will be hyphenated if the parameter {hyphenation} is set to true and
the parameter {hyphendict} contains a valid filename for a hyphenation file.
The line spacing is taken from the value leading. Paragraphs can be separated
by an empty line just like in TeX. If the value parindent is set to value >
0.0 then the first n lines will be indented. The number n of lines is set by
the parameter numindentlines. In order to prevent indenting of the first m
paragraphs set the value parindentskip to a positive number.

{psdoc} Resource identifier of the postscript file as returned by |ps_new|.

{text} The text to be output into the given box.

{left} x-coordinate of the lower left corner of the box.

{bottom} y-coordinate of the lower left corner of the box.

{width} Width of the box.

{height} Height of the box.

{hmode} The parameter {hmode} can be "justify", "fulljustify", "right",
"left", or "center". The difference of "justify" and "fulljustify" just
affects the last line of the box. In fulljustify mode the last line will be
left and right justified unless this is also the last line of paragraph. In
justify mode it will always be left justified.

{feature}

The output of |ps_show_boxed| can be configured with several parameters and
values which must be set with either |ps_set_parameter| or |ps_set_value|.
Beside the parameters and values which affect text output, the following
parameters and values are evaluated. leading (value) Distance between
baselines of two consecutive lines.

linebreak (parameter) Set to "true" if you want a carriage return to start a
new line instead of treating it as a space. Defaults to "false".

parbreak (parameter) Set to "true" if you want a carriage return on a single
line to start a new paragraph instead of treating it as a space. Defaults to
"true".

hyphenation (parameter) Set to "true" in order to turn hyphenation on. This
requires a dictionary to be set with the parameter "hyphendict". Defaults to
"false".

hyphendict (parameter) Filename of the dictionary used for hyphenation pattern
(see below).

hyphenminchar (value) The number of chars which must at least be left over
before or after the hyphen. This implies that only words of at least two times
this value will be hyphenated. The default value is three. Setting a value of
zero will result in the default value.

parindent (value) Set the amount of space in pixel for indenting the first m
lines of a paragraph. m can be set with the value "numindentlines".

parskip (value) Set the amount of extra space in pixel between paragraphs.
Defaults to 0 which will result in a normal line distance.

numindentlines (value) Number of lines from the start of the paragraph which
will be indented. Defaults to 1.

parindentskip (value) Number of paragraphs in the box whose first lines will
not be indented. This defaults to 0. This is useful for paragraphs right after
a section heading or text being continued in a second box. In both case one
would set this to 1.

linenumbermode (parameter) Set how lines are to be numbered. Possible values
are "box" for numbering lines in the whole box or "paragraph" to number lines
within each paragraph.

linenumberspace (value) The space for the column left of the numbered line
containing the line number. The line number will be right justified into this
column. Defaults to 20.

linenumbersep (value) The space between the column with line numbers and the
line itself. Defaults to 5.

Text is hyphenated if the parameter hyphenation is set to true and a valid
hyphenation dictionary is set. pslib does not ship its own hyphenation
dictionary but uses one from openoffice, scribus or koffice. You can find
their dictionaries for different languages in one of the following directories
if the software is installed: /usr/share/apps/koffice/hyphdicts/
/usr/lib/scribus/dicts/ /usr/lib/openoffice/share/dict/ooo/ Currently scribus
appears to have the most complete hyphenation dictionaries.

Number of characters that could not be written.

|ps_continue_text|

vim:ft=help:
