*pspell_new_personal* -- Load a new dictionary with personal wordlist

  int pspell_new_personal(string personal, string language [, string spelling [, string jargon [, string encoding [, int mode]]]])~

|pspell_new_personal| opens up a new dictionary with a personal wordlist. The
wordlist can be modified and saved with |pspell_save_wordlist|, if desired.
However, the replacement pairs are not saved. In order to save replacement
pairs, you should create a config using |pspell_config_create|, set the
personal wordlist file with |pspell_config_personal|, set the file for
replacement pairs with |pspell_config_repl|, and open a new dictionary with
|pspell_new_config|.

For more information and examples, check out inline manual pspell
website:http://aspell.net/.

{personal} The file where words added to the personal list will be stored. It
should be an absolute filename beginning with '/' because otherwise it will be
relative to $HOME, which is "/root" for most systems, and is probably not what
you want.

{language} The language code which consists of the two letter ISO 639 language
code and an optional two letter ISO 3166 country code after a dash or
underscore.

{spelling} The requested spelling for languages with more than one spelling
such as English. Known values are 'american', 'british', and 'canadian'.

{jargon} Extra information to distinguish two different words lists that have
the same language and spelling parameters.

{encoding} The encoding that words are expected to be in. Valid values are
utf-8, iso8859-*, koi8-r, viscii, cp1252, machine unsigned 16, machine
unsigned 32.

{mode} The mode in which spellchecker will work. There are several modes
available: PSPELL_FAST - Fast mode (least number of suggestions)

PSPELL_NORMAL - Normal mode (more suggestions)

PSPELL_BAD_SPELLERS - Slow mode (a lot of suggestions)

PSPELL_RUN_TOGETHER - Consider run-together words as legal compounds. That is,
"thecat" will be a legal compound, although there should be a space between
the two words. Changing this setting only affects the results returned by
|pspell_check|; |pspell_suggest| will still return suggestions.

Mode is a bitmask constructed from different constants listed above. However,
PSPELL_FAST, PSPELL_NORMAL and PSPELL_BAD_SPELLERS are mutually exclusive, so
you should select only one of them.

Returns the dictionary link identifier for use in other pspell functions.

|pspell_new_personal|

<?php >
  $pspell_link = pspell_new_personal ("/var/dictionaries/custom.pws",
          "en", "", "", "", PSPELL_FAST|PSPELL_RUN_TOGETHER);
?>





vim:ft=help:
