*SAMConnection->send* -- Send a message to a queue or publish an item to a
topic.

  string send(string target, SAMMessage msg [, array properties])~

The "send" method is used to send a message to a specific queue or to publish
to a specific topic. The method returns a correlation id that can be used as a
selector to identify reply or response messages when these are requested.

{target} If sending a message, the identity of the queue (queue://queuename)
or if publishing to a topic the identity of the topic (topic://topicname) to
which the message is to be delivered.

{msg} The message to be sent or published.

{properties} An optional associative array of properties describing other
parameters to control the receive operation. Property name Possible values
SAM_DELIVERYMODE Indicates whether the messaging server should ensure delivery
or whether it is acceptable for messages to be lost in the case of system
failures. The value of this property may be set to either SAM_PERSISTENT, to
indicate that message loss is not acceptable, or SAM_NON_PERSISTENT, if
message loss is acceptable. The resulting behaviour of the send will vary
depending on the capabilities of the messaging server the PHP script is
currently connected to. If the server does not support persistent messages and
SAM_PERSISTENT is specified the send request will fail with an error
indication showing the capability is not available. SAM_PRIORITY A numeric
value between 0 and 9 indicating the desired message delivery priority. A
priority value of 0 indicates the lowest priority while 9 indicates highest
priority. If no priority is specified a default will be assigned which is
dependent on the messaging server being used. SAM_CORRELID A string to be
assigned as a correlation id for this message. If no value is given the
messaging server may assign a value automatically. SAM_TIMETOLIVE A time in
milliseconds indicating how long the messaging server should retain the
message on a queue before discarding it. The default value is 0 indicating the
message should be retained indefinitely. SAM_WMQ_TARGET_CLIENT This property
is only valid when using WebSphere MQ and indicates whether or not an RFH2
header should be included with the message. This option may be set to either
'jms' or 'mq'. The default is 'jms' which means that an RFH2 header is
included. If the value 'mq' is specified then no RFH2 is included with the
message.

A correlation id string that can be used in a subsequent receive call as a
selector to obtain any reply or response that has been requested or FALSE if
an error occurred.

A correlation id will only be returned for a successful send to a queue
destination (queue://xxxx) in which case it will reflect the message identity
of the message on the queue. In the case of a send being used to publish data
to a topic the return value will be TRUE as no correlation id is available for
return.

Send a message to a queue

<?php >
  $msg = new SAMMessage('This is a simple text message');
  $correlId = $conn->send('queue://send/test', $msg);
  if (!$correlId) {
      // The send failed!
      echo "Send failed ($conn->errno) $conn->error";
  }
?>





Publish a message to a topic

<?php >
  $msg = new SAMMessage('This is a simple text item');
  if (!$conn->send('topic://test', $msg)) {
      // The Send failed!
      echo "Send failed ($conn->errno) $conn->error";
  }
?>



Send a request and receive a response

<?php >
  $msg = new SAMMessage('This is a simple text message');
  $msg->header->SAM_REPLY_TO = 'queue://receive/test';
  $correlid = $conn->send('queue://send/test', $msg);
  
  if (!$correlid) {
      // The Send failed!
      echo "Send failed ($conn->errno) $conn->error";
  } else {
      $resp = $conn->receive('queue://receive/test', array(SAM_CORRELID => $correlid));
  }
?>





vim:ft=help:
