*SCA::getService* -- Obtain a proxy for a service

  mixed SCA::getService(string target [, string binding [, array config]])~

This function is EXPERIMENTAL. The behaviour of this function, its name, and
surrounding documentation may change without notice in a future release of
PHP. This function should be used at your own risk.

Examine the target and initialize and return a proxy of the appropriate sort.
If the target is for a local PHP component the returned proxy will be an
SCA_LocalProxy. If the target is for a WSDL file, the returned proxy will be a
SCA_SoapProxy.

{target} An absolute or relative path to the target service or service
description (e.g. a URL to a json-rpc service description, a PHP component, a
WSDL file, and so on.). A relative path, if specified, is resolved relative to
the location of the script issuing the |getService| call, and not against the
include_path or current working directory.

{binding} The binding (i.e. protocol) to use to communicate with the service
(e.g binding.jsonrpc for a json-rpc service). Note, some service types can be
deduced from the target parameter (e.g. if the target parameter ends in .wsdl
then SCA will assume binding.soap). Any binding which can be specified in an
annotation can be specified here. For example 'binding.soap' is equivalent to
the '@binding.soap' annotation.

{config} Any additional configuration properties for the binding (e.g.
array('location' => 'http://example.org')). Any binding configuration which
can be specified in an annotation can be specified here. For example,
'location' is equivalent to the '@location' annotation to configure the
location of a target soap service.

The SCA_LocalProxy or SCA_SoapProxy.

An |SCA::getService| example This example shows how to get a proxy to an email
soap service described by EmailService.wsdl and located at http://example.org.

<?php >
  include 'SCA/SCA.php';
  $service = SCA::getService('EmailService.wsdl', 'binding.soap', array('location' => 'http://example.org'));
  $service->send(...);
?>

The above example will output:





vim:ft=help:
