*SDO_DAS_DataFactory::addPropertyToType* -- Adds a property to a type

  void SDO_DAS_DataFactory::addPropertyToType(string parent_type_namespace_uri, string parent_type_name, string property_name, string type_namespace_uri, string type_name [, array options])~

This function is EXPERIMENTAL. The behaviour of this function, its name, and
surrounding documentation may change without notice in a future release of
PHP. This function should be used at your own risk.

Adds a property to a type. The type must already be known to the
SDO_DAS_DataFactory (i.e. have been added using addType()). The property
becomes a property of the type. This is how the graph model for the structure
of an SDO_DataObject is built.

{parent_type_namespace_uri} The namespace URI for the parent type.

{parent_type_name} The type name for the parent type.

{property_name} The name by which the property will be known in the parent
type.

{type_namespace_uri} The namespace URI for the type of the property.

{type_name} The type name for the type of the property

{options} This array holds one or more key=>value pairs to set attribute
values for the property. The optional keywords are:

{many} A flag to say whether the property is many-valued. A value of 'true'
adds the property as a many-valued property (default is 'false').

{readOnly} A flag to say whether the property is read-only. A value of 'true'
means the property value cannot be modified through the SDO application APIs
(default is 'false').

{containment} A flag to say whether the property is contained by the parent. A
value of 'true' means the property is contained by the parent. A value of
'false' results in a non-containment reference (default is 'true'). This flag
is only interpreted when adding properties which are data object types,
otherwise it is ignored.

{default} A default value for the property. Omitting this key means that the
property does not have a default value. A property can only have a default
value if it is a single-valued data type (primitive).

None.

Version Description 0.5.2 Optional parameters many, readOnly, and containment
deprecated in favour of the options array.

A |SDO_DAS_DataFactory::addPropertyToType| example The following adds an
'addressline' property to a Person type. The person type is identified by its
namespace, 'PersonNS', and type name, 'PersonType'. The type of the
'addressline' property is a many-valued SDO data type (primitive) with
namespace 'commonj.sdo' and type name 'String'.

<?php >
    $df->addPropertyToType('PersonNS', 'PersonType',
      'addressline', 'commonj.sdo', 'String', array('many'=>true));
?>



vim:ft=help:
