*SDO_DAS_Relational::__construct* -- Creates an instance of a Relational Data
Access Service

  SDO_DAS_Relational SDO_DAS_Relational::__construct(array database_metadata [, string application_root_type [, array SDO_containment_references_metadata]])~

This function is EXPERIMENTAL. The behaviour of this function, its name, and
surrounding documentation may change without notice in a future release of
PHP. This function should be used at your own risk.

Constructs an instance of a Relational Data Access Service from the passed
metadata.

database_metadata An array containing one or more table definitions, each of
which is an associative array containing the keys name, columns, PK, and
optionally, FK. For a full discussion of the metadata, see the metadata
section in the general information about the Relational DAS.

application_root_type The root of each data graph is an object of a special
root type and the application data objects come below that. Of the various
application types in the SDO model, one has to be the application type
immediately below the root of the data graph. If there is only one table in
the database metadata, so the application root type can be inferred, this
argument can be omitted.

SDO_containment_references_metadata An array containing one or more
definitions of a containment relation, each of which is an associative array
containing the keys parent and child. The containment relations describe how
the types in the model are connected to form a tree. The type specified as the
application root type must be present as one of the parent types in the
containment references. If the application only needs to work with one table
at a time, and there are no containment relations in the model, this argument
can be omitted. For a full discussion of the metadata, see the metadata
section in the general information about the Relational DAS.

Returns an SDO_DAS_Relational object on success.

|SDO_DAS_Relational::__construct| throws a SDO_DAS_Relational_Exception if any
problems are found in the metadata.

For a full discussion of the metadata, see the metadata section in the general
information about the Relational DAS.

vim:ft=help:
