*ssh2_connect* -- Connect to an SSH server

  resource ssh2_connect(string host [, int port [, array methods [, array callbacks]]])~

Establish a connection to a remote SSH server.

Once connected, the client should verify the server's hostkey using
|ssh2_fingerprint|, then authenticate using either password or public key.

{host}

{port}

{methods} {methods} may be an associative array with up to four parameters as
described below.

{methods} may be an associative array with any or all of the following
parameters. Index Meaning Supported Values* kex List of key exchange methods
to advertise, comma separated in order of preference.
diffie-hellman-group1-sha1, diffie-hellman-group14-sha1, and
diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha1 hostkey List of hostkey methods to
advertise, come separated in order of preference. ssh-rsa and ssh-dss
client_to_server Associative array containing crypt, compression, and message
authentication code (MAC) method preferences for messages sent from client to
server. server_to_client Associative array containing crypt, compression, and
message authentication code (MAC) method preferences for messages sent from
server to client.

* - Supported Values are dependent on methods supported by underlying library.
See libssh2 documentation for additional information.

{client_to_server} and {server_to_client} may be an associative array with any
or all of the following parameters. Index Meaning Supported Values* crypt List
of crypto methods to advertise, comma separated in order of preference.
rijndael-cbc@lysator.liu.se, aes256-cbc, aes192-cbc, aes128-cbc, 3des-cbc,
blowfish-cbc, cast128-cbc, arcfour, and none** comp List of compression
methods to advertise, comma separated in order of preference. zlib and none
mac List of MAC methods to advertise, come separated in order of preference.
hmac-sha1, hmac-sha1-96, hmac-ripemd160, hmac-ripemd160@openssh.com, and
none**

Crypt and MAC method "none" For security reasons, none is disabled by the
underlying libssh2 library unless explicitly enabled during build time by
using the appropriate ./configure options. See documentation for the
underlying library for more information.

{callbacks} {callbacks} may be an associative array with any or all of the
following parameters. Callbacks parameters Index Meaning Prototype ignore Name
of function to call when an SSH2_MSG_IGNORE packet is received void
ignore_cb($message) debug Name of function to call when an SSH2_MSG_DEBUG
packet is received void debug_cb($message, $language, $always_display)
macerror Name of function to call when a packet is received but the message
authentication code failed. If the callback returns TRUE, the mismatch will be
ignored, otherwise the connection will be terminated. bool
macerror_cb($packet) disconnect Name of function to call when an
SSH2_MSG_DISCONNECT packet is received void disconnect_cb($reason, $message,
$language)

Returns a resource on success, or FALSE on error.

|ssh2_connect| example Open a connection forcing 3des-cbc when sending
packets, any strength aes cipher when receiving packets, no compression in
either direction, and Group1 key exchange.

<?php >
  /* Notify the user if the server terminates the connection */
  function my_ssh_disconnect($reason, $message, $language) {
    printf("Server disconnected with reason code [%d] and message: %s\n",
           $reason, $message);
  }
  
  $methods = array(
    'kex' => 'diffie-hellman-group1-sha1',
    'client_to_server' => array(
      'crypt' => '3des-cbc',
      'comp' => 'none'),
    'server_to_client' => array(
      'crypt' => 'aes256-cbc,aes192-cbc,aes128-cbc',
      'comp' => 'none'));
  
  $callbacks = array('disconnect' => 'my_ssh_disconnect');
  
  $connection = ssh2_connect('shell.example.com', 22, $methods, $callbacks);
  if (!$connection) die('Connection failed');
?>



|ssh2_fingerprint| |ssh2_auth_none| |ssh2_auth_password|
|ssh2_auth_pubkey_file|

vim:ft=help:
