*svn_status* -- Returns the status of working copy files and directories

  array svn_status(string path [, int flags])~

Returns the status of working copy files and directories, giving
modifications, additions, deletions and other changes to items in the working
copy.

{path} Local path to file or directory to retrieve status of.

Relative paths will be resolved as if the current working directory was the
one that contains the PHP binary. To use the calling script"s working
directory, use |realpath| or dirname(__FILE__).

{flags} Any combination of SVN_NON_RECURSIVE, SVN_ALL (regardless of
modification status), SVN_SHOW_UPDATES (entries will be added for items that
are out-of-date), SVN_NO_IGNORE (disregard svn:ignore properties when scanning
for new files) and SVN_IGNORE_EXTERNALS.

Returns a numerically indexed array of associative arrays detailing the status
of items in the repository:



  Array (
      [0] => Array (
          // information on item
      )
      [1] => ...
  )

The information on the item is an associative array that can contain the
following keys:

String path to file/directory of this entry on local filesystem.

Status of item's text. Refer to status constants for possible values.

Status of item's text in repository. Only accurate if {update} was set to
TRUE. Refer to status constants for possible values.

Status of item's properties. Refer to status constants for possible values.

Status of item's property in repository. Only accurate if {update} was set to
TRUE. Refer to status constants for possible values.

Whether or not the item is locked. (Only set if TRUE.)

Whether or not the item was copied (scheduled for addition with history).
(Only set if TRUE.)

Whether or not the item was switched using the switch command. (Only set if
TRUE)

These keys are only set if the item is versioned:

Base name of item in repository.

URL of item in repository.

Base URL of repository.

Integer revision of item in working copy.

Type of item, i.e. file or directory. Refer to type constants for possible
values.

Scheduled action for item, i.e. addition or deletion. Constants for these
magic numbers are not available, they can be emulated by using:



<?php >
  if (!defined('svn_wc_schedule_normal')) {
      define('svn_wc_schedule_normal',  0); // nothing special
      define('svn_wc_schedule_add',     1); // item will be added
      define('svn_wc_schedule_delete',  2); // item will be deleted
      define('svn_wc_schedule_replace', 3); // item will be added and deleted
  }
?>

Whether or not the item was deleted, but parent revision lags behind. (Only
set if TRUE.)

Whether or not the item is absent, that is, Subversion knows that there should
be something there but there isn't. (Only set if TRUE.)

Whether or not the entries file for a directory is incomplete. (Only set if
TRUE.)

Integer Unix timestamp of last commit date. (Unaffected by {update}.)

Integer revision of last commit. (Unaffected by {update}.)

String author of last commit. (Unaffected by {update}.)

Integer Unix timestamp of last up-to-date time for properties

Integer Unix timestamp of last up-to-date time for text

This function is EXPERIMENTAL. The behaviour of this function, its name, and
surrounding documentation may change without notice in a future release of
PHP. This function should be used at your own risk.

Basic example This example demonstrates a basic, theoretical usage of this
function.

<?php >
  print_r(svn_status(realpath('wc')));
?>

The above example will output something similar to:

  Array (
      [0] => Array (
          [path] => /home/bob/wc/sandwich.txt
          [text_status] => 8 // item was modified
          [repos_text_status] => 1 // no information available, use update
          [prop_status] => 3 // no changes
          [repos_prop_status] => 1 // no information available, use update
          [name] => sandwich.txt
          [url] => http://www.example.com/svnroot/deli/trunk/sandwich.txt
          [repos] => http://www.example.com/svnroot/
          [revision] => 123
          [kind] => 1 // file
          [schedule] => 0 // no special actions scheduled
          [cmt_date] => 1165543135
          [cmt_rev] => 120
          [cmt_author] => Alice
          [prop_time] => 1180201728
          [text_time] => 1180201729
      )
  )



|svn_update| |svn_log| SVN documentation for svn status

vim:ft=help:
