*udm_set_agent_param* -- Set mnoGoSearch agent session parameters

  bool udm_set_agent_param(resource agent, int var, string val)~

Defines mnoGoSearch session parameters.

{agent} A link to Agent, received after call to |udm_alloc_agent|.

{var} The following parameters and their values are available:
UDM_PARAM_PAGE_NUM - used to choose search results page number (results are
returned by pages beginning from 0, with UDM_PARAM_PAGE_SIZE results per
page).

UDM_PARAM_PAGE_SIZE - number of search results displayed on one page.

UDM_PARAM_SEARCH_MODE - search mode. The following values available:
UDM_MODE_ALL - search for all words; UDM_MODE_ANY - search for any word;
UDM_MODE_PHRASE - phrase search; UDM_MODE_BOOL - boolean search. See
|udm_find| for details on boolean search.

UDM_PARAM_CACHE_MODE - turns on or off search result cache mode. When enabled,
the search engine will store search results to disk. In case a similar search
is performed later, the engine will take results from the cache for faster
performance. Available values: UDM_CACHE_ENABLED, UDM_CACHE_DISABLED.

UDM_PARAM_TRACK_MODE - turns on or off trackquery mode. Since version 3.1.2
mnoGoSearch has a query tracking support. Note that tracking is implemented in
SQL version only and not available in built-in database. To use tracking, you
have to create tables for tracking support. For MySQL, use
create/mysql/track.txt. When doing a search, front-end uses those tables to
store query words, a number of found documents and current Unix timestamp in
seconds. Available values: UDM_TRACK_ENABLED, UDM_TRACK_DISABLED.

UDM_PARAM_PHRASE_MODE - defines whether index database using phrases ("phrase"
parameter in indexer.conf). Possible values: UDM_PHRASE_ENABLED and
UDM_PHRASE_DISABLED. Please note, that if phrase search is enabled
(UDM_PHRASE_ENABLED), it is still possible to do search in any mode (ANY, ALL,
BOOL or PHRASE). In 3.1.10 version of mnoGoSearch phrase search is supported
only in sql and built-in database modes, while beginning with 3.1.11 phrases
are supported in cachemode as well.

Examples of phrase search:

"Arizona desert" - This query returns all indexed documents that contain
"Arizona desert" as a phrase. Notice that you need to put double quotes around
the phrase

UDM_PARAM_CHARSET - defines local charset. Available values: set of charsets
supported by mnoGoSearch, e.g. koi8-r, cp1251, ...

UDM_PARAM_STOPFILE - Defines name and path to stopwords file. (There is a
small difference with mnoGoSearch - while in mnoGoSearch if relative path or
no path entered, it looks for this file in relation to UDM_CONF_DIR, the
module looks for the file in relation to current path, i.e. to the path where
the PHP script is executed.)

UDM_PARAM_STOPTABLE - Load stop words from the given SQL table. You may use
several StopwordTable commands. This command has no effect when compiled
without SQL database support.

UDM_PARAM_WEIGHT_FACTOR - represents weight factors for specific document
parts. Currently body, title, keywords, description, url are supported. To
activate this feature please use degrees of 2 in *Weight commands of the
indexer.conf. Let's imagine that we have these weights:

  URLWeight     1
        BodyWeight    2
        TitleWeight   4
        KeywordWeight 8
        DescWeight    16

As far as indexer uses bit OR operation for word weights when some word
presents several time in the same document, it is possible at search time to
detect word appearance in different document parts. Word which appears only in
the body will have 00000010 aggregate weight (in binary notation). Word used
in all document parts will have 00011111 aggregate weight.

This parameter's value is a string of hex digits ABCDE. Each digit is a factor
for corresponding bit in word weight. For the given above weights
configuration:

  E is a factor for weight 1  (URL Weight bit)
         D is a factor for weight 2  (BodyWeight bit)
         C is a factor for weight 4  (TitleWeight bit)
         B is a factor for weight 8  (KeywordWeight bit)
         A is a factor for weight 16 (DescWeight bit)

Examples:

UDM_PARAM_WEIGHT_FACTOR=00001 will search through URLs only.

UDM_PARAM_WEIGHT_FACTOR=00100 will search through Titles only.

UDM_PARAM_WEIGHT_FACTOR=11100 will search through Title,Keywords,Description
but not through URL and Body.

UDM_PARAM_WEIGHT_FACTOR=F9421 will search through:

  Description with factor 15  (F hex)
          Keywords with factor 9
          Title with factor  4
          Body with factor 2
          URL with factor 1

If UDM_PARAM_WEIGHT_FACTOR variable is omitted, original weight value is taken
to sort results. For a given above weight configuration it means that document
description has a most big weight 16.

UDM_PARAM_WORD_MATCH - word match. You may use this parameter to choose word
match type. This feature works only in "single" and "multi" modes using SQL
based and built-in database. It does not work in cachemode and other modes
since they use word CRC and do not support substring search. Available values:

UDM_MATCH_BEGIN - word beginning match;

UDM_MATCH_END - word ending match;

UDM_MATCH_WORD - whole word match;

UDM_MATCH_SUBSTR - word substring match.

UDM_PARAM_MIN_WORD_LEN - defines minimal word length. Any word shorter this
limit is considered to be a stopword. Please note that this parameter value is
inclusive, i.e. if UDM_PARAM_MIN_WORD_LEN=3, a word 3 characters long will not
be considered a stopword, while a word 2 characters long will be. Default
value is 1.

UDM_PARAM_ISPELL_PREFIXES - Possible values: UDM_PREFIXES_ENABLED and
UDM_PREFIXES_DISABLED, that respectively enable or disable using prefixes.
E.g. if a word "tested" is in search query, also words like "test", "testing",
etc. Only suffixes are supported by default. Prefixes usually change word
meanings, for example if somebody is searching for the word "tested" one
hardly wants "untested" to be found. Prefixes support may also be found useful
for site's spelling checking purposes. In order to enable ispell, you have to
load ispell data with |udm_load_ispell_data|.

UDM_PARAM_CROSS_WORDS - enables or disables crosswords support. Possible
values: UDM_CROSS_WORDS_ENABLED and UDM_CROSS_WORDS_DISABLED.

The crosswords feature allows to assign words between and also to a document
this link leads to. It works in SQL database mode and is not supported in
built-in database and Cachemode.

UDM_PARAM_VARDIR - specifies a custom path to directory where indexer stores
data when using built-in database and in cache mode. By default /var directory
of mnoGoSearch installation is used. Can have only string values.

{val}

Version Description 4.1.0 UDM_PARAM_VARDIR was added.

Returns TRUE on success or &false; on failure.

Crosswords are supported only in mnoGoSearch 3.1.11 or later.

vim:ft=help:
