*udm_add_search_limit* -- Add various search limits

  bool udm_add_search_limit(resource agent, int var, string val)~

|udm_add_search_limit| adds search restrictions.

{agent} A link to Agent, received after call to |udm_alloc_agent|.

{var} Defines the parameter, indicating limits. Possible {var} values:
UDM_LIMIT_URL - defines document URL limitations to limit the search through
subsection of the database. It supports SQL % and _ LIKE wildcards, where %
matches any number of characters, even zero characters, and _ matches exactly
one character. E.g. http://www.example.___/catalog may stand for
http://www.example.com/catalog and http://www.example.net/catalog.

UDM_LIMIT_TAG - defines site TAG limitations. In indexer-conf you can assign
specific TAGs to various sites and parts of a site. Tags in mnoGoSearch 3.1.x
are lines, that may contain metasymbols % and _. Metasymbols allow searching
among groups of tags. E.g. there are links with tags ABCD and ABCE, and search
restriction is by ABC_ - the search will be made among both of the tags.

UDM_LIMIT_LANG - defines document language limitations.

UDM_LIMIT_CAT - defines document category limitations. Categories are similar
to tag feature, but nested. So you can have one category inside another and so
on. You have to use two characters for each level. Use a hex number going from
0-F or a 36 base number going from 0-Z. Therefore a top-level category like
'Auto' would be 01. If it has a subcategory like 'Ford', then it would be 01
(the parent category) and then 'Ford' which we will give 01. Put those
together and you get 0101. If 'Auto' had another subcategory named 'VW', then
it's id would be 01 because it belongs to the 'Ford' category and then 02
because it's the next category. So it's id would be 0102. If VW had a sub
category called 'Engine' then it's id would start at 01 again and it would get
the 'VW' id 02 and 'Auto' id of 01, making it 010201. If you want to search
for sites under that category then you pass it cat=010201 in the URL.

UDM_LIMIT_DATE - defines limitation by date the document was modified.

vim:ft=help:
