*win32_create_service* -- Creates a new service entry in the SCM database

  mixed win32_create_service(array details [, string machine])~

{details} An array of service details: {service} The short name of the
service. This is the name that you will use to control the service using the
net command. The service must be unique (no two services can share the same
name), and, ideally, should avoid having spaces in the name.

{display} The display name of the service. This is the name that you will see
in the Services Applet.

{description} The long description of the service. This is the description
that you will see in the Services Applet.

{user} The name of the user account under which you want the service to run.
If omitted, the service will run as the LocalSystem account. If the username
is specified, you must also provide a password.

{password} The password that corresponds to the {user}.

{path} The full path to the executable module that will be launched when the
service is started. If omitted, the path to the current PHP process will be
used.

{params} Command line parameters to pass to the service when it starts. If you
want to run a PHP script as the service, then the first parameter should be
the full path to the PHP script that you intend to run. If the script name or
path contains spaces, then wrap the full path to the PHP script with ".

{load_order} Controls the load_order. This is not yet fully supported.

{svc_type} Sets the service type. If omitted, the default value is
WIN32_SERVICE_WIN32_OWN_PROCESS. Don't change this unless you know what you're
doing.

{start_type} Specifies how the service should be started. The default is
WIN32_SERVICE_AUTO_START which means the service will be launched when the
machine starts up.

{error_control} Informs the SCM what it should do when it detects a problem
with the service. The default is WIN32_SERVER_ERROR_IGNORE. Changing this
value is not yet fully supported.

{delayed_start} If {delayed_start} is set to TRUE, then this will inform the
SCM that this service should be started after other auto-start services are
started plus a short delay.

Any service can be marked as a delayed auto-start service; however, this
setting has no effect unless the service's {start_type} is
WIN32_SERVICE_AUTO_START.

This setting is only applicable on Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008 or
greater.

{base_priority} To reduce the impact on processor utilisation, it may be
necessary to set a base priority lower than normal.

The {base_priority} can be set to one of the constants define in Win32 Base
Priority Classes.

{machine} The optional machine name on which you want to create a service. If
omitted, it will use the local machine.

Returns WIN32_NO_ERROR on success, &false; if there is a problem with the
parameters or a Win32 Error Code on failure.

A |win32_create_service| example Create a service with the short name
'dummyphp'.

<?php >
  $x = win32_create_service(array(
      'service'     => 'dummyphp',                                           # the name of your service
      'display'     => 'sample dummy PHP service',                           # short description
      'description' => 'This is a dummy Windows service created using PHP.', # long description
      'params'      => '"' . __FILE__ . '"  run',                            # path to the script and parameters
  ));
  debug_zval_dump($x);
?>



|win32_delete_service| Win32 Base Priority Classes Win32 Error Codes

vim:ft=help:
